README.md, before:

This repository contains functions that can be used to conduct analysis on chemical reaction networks (CRNs). The main functions are to partition the reactions of a CRN into algebraically independent subnetworks and to generate new Catalyst-defined CRNs which can the be analysed independently. 

There are additional functions to analyse the subnetworks- in particular one can search for polynomials in the rowspan of a given network involving particular terms. Polynomials exisiting in the ideal generated by the rate equations can also be found.

independent_decomposition.jl:

This code was adapted for Julia from the MATLAB function indepDecomp within the package COMPILES (see reference below)

Hernandez BS, Lubenia PVN, Johnston MD, Kim JK (2023) A framework for deriving analytic steady states of biochemical reaction networks. PLOS Computational Biology 19(4): e1011039. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1011039

The function independent_decomposition requires the following Julia packages to be installed: RowEchelon, Catalyst, Graphs, Combinatorics, MetaGraphs

INPUT : Julia file containing a Catalyst-defined reaction network (See Catalyst.jl for details on how to define your network). The name of the file must be "-name-of-your-reaction-network.jl" 

OUTPUT : The finest possible partition of the network reactions into independent subnetworks. *Note that reactions are numbered in the order they appear in the Catalyst reaction network.


generate_subnet_files.jl:

The function generate_subnet_files requires the following Julia packages to be installed: Catalyst, ModelingToolkit

INPUT : The name of the Julia file containing the CRN to be decomposed preceded by a :. Note that the file name and the reaction network defined within the file should be identical. For example, if the reaction network is called example_net, then the file name should be example_net.jl. So to run this function, we would use generate_subnet_files(:example_net) 

OUTPUT : The decomposition of the input CRN into independent subnetworks. A file will also be generated to define each independent network.


rowspan_polynomials.jl:

This function is adapted from (ref) 

The function finds polynomials in the rowspan of a CRN with monomial terms corresponding to chosen complexes in the CRN

INPUT : The name of a Catalyst-defined reaction network, a vector containing the indices of the chosen complexes

OUTPUT : Vectors representing the linear combinations of rate equations required to reach the rowspan polynomial and the coefficients of each monomial in the rowspan polynomial. There should be zero's corresponding to the non-chosen complexes. 

You can multiply these coefficients to get the polynomial


get_Oscar_SteadyStatesystem.jl:

INPUT : The name of a Catalyst-defined CRN

OUTPUT : Rate equations for the CRN


Retina-jl:

We have included this as an example network- it is a CRN for cellular cholesterol regulation in the retina. 


Example_Retina.ipynb

This Jupyter notebook demonstrates how we can decompose the Retina CRN and analyse its subnetworks.

Commit message:

Add references to two papers in README
Updated references in README to include two papers for context.

README.md, after:

This repository contains functions that can be used to conduct analysis on chemical reaction networks (CRNs). The main functions are to partition the reactions of a CRN into algebraically independent subnetworks and to generate new Catalyst-defined CRNs which can the be analysed independently. 

There are additional functions to analyse the subnetworks- in particular one can search for polynomials in the rowspan of a given network involving particular terms. Polynomials exisiting in the ideal generated by the rate equations can also be found.

independent_decomposition.jl:

This code was adapted for Julia from the MATLAB function indepDecomp within the package COMPILES (see reference below)

Hernandez BS, Lubenia PVN, Johnston MD, Kim JK (2023) A framework for deriving analytic steady states of biochemical reaction networks. PLOS Computational Biology 19(4): e1011039. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1011039

The function independent_decomposition requires the following Julia packages to be installed: RowEchelon, Catalyst, Graphs, Combinatorics, MetaGraphs

INPUT : Julia file containing a Catalyst-defined reaction network (See Catalyst.jl for details on how to define your network). The name of the file must be "-name-of-your-reaction-network.jl" 

OUTPUT : The finest possible partition of the network reactions into independent subnetworks. *Note that reactions are numbered in the order they appear in the Catalyst reaction network.


generate_subnet_files.jl:

The function generate_subnet_files requires the following Julia packages to be installed: Catalyst, ModelingToolkit

INPUT : The name of the Julia file containing the CRN to be decomposed preceded by a :. Note that the file name and the reaction network defined within the file should be identical. For example, if the reaction network is called example_net, then the file name should be example_net.jl. So to run this function, we would use generate_subnet_files(:example_net) 

OUTPUT : The decomposition of the input CRN into independent subnetworks. A file will also be generated to define each independent network.


rowspan_polynomials.jl:

This function is adapted from two papers:

Cappelletti, D., Gupta, A., and Khammash, M. (2020). A hidden integral structure endows absolute concentration robust systems with resilience to dynamical concentration disturbances. Journal of The Royal Society Interface, 17(171):20200437.

Karp, R. L., P´erez Mill´an, M., Dasgupta, T., Dickenstein, A., and Gunawardena, J. (2012). Complex-linear invariants of biochemical networks. Journal of Theoretical Biology, 311:130–138.

The function finds polynomials in the rowspan of a CRN with monomial terms corresponding to chosen complexes in the CRN

INPUT : The name of a Catalyst-defined reaction network, a vector containing the indices of the chosen complexes

OUTPUT : Vectors representing the linear combinations of rate equations required to reach the rowspan polynomial and the coefficients of each monomial in the rowspan polynomial. There should be zero's corresponding to the non-chosen complexes. 


get_Oscar_SteadyStatesystem.jl:

INPUT : The name of a Catalyst-defined CRN

OUTPUT : Rate equations for the CRN


Retina-jl:

We have included this as an example network- it is a CRN for cellular cholesterol regulation in the retina. 


Example_Retina.ipynb

This Jupyter notebook demonstrates how we can decompose the Retina CRN and analyse its subnetworks.
